---
layout: article
title: "Routing Questions for Collaborative Answering in Community Question Answering"
author: Shuo Chang, Aditya Pal 
conference: IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM), 2013
annotation: Best Full Paper Award 
modified: 2013-09-13
category: papers
tags: [ASONAM, Stack Overflow, Question Routing]
comments: true  
download: http://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~schang/papers/13ASONAM.pdf
---
##Abstract
Community Question Answering (CQA) service
enables its users to exchange knowledge in the form of questions
and answers. By allowing the users to contribute knowledge, CQA
not only satisﬁes the question askers but also provides valuable
references to other users with similar queries. Due to a large
volume of questions, not all questions get fully answered. As
a result, it can be useful to route a question to a potential
answerer. In this paper, we present a question routing scheme
which takes into account the answering, commenting and voting
propensities of the users. Unlike prior work which focuses on
routing a question to the most desirable expert, we focus on
routing it to a group of users - who would be willing to collaborate
and provide useful answers to that question. Through empirical
evidence, we show that more answers and comments are desirable
for improving the lasting value of a question-answer thread.
As a result, our focus is on routing a question to a team of
compatible users. We propose a recommendation model that takes
into account the compatibility, topical expertise and availability of
the users. Our experiments over a large real-world dataset shows
the effectiveness of our approach over several baseline models.


<div markdown="0"><a href="/~schang/papers/13ASONAM.pdf" class="btn">Download Paper</a></div>
