---
layout: article
title: "Using Groups of Items for Preference Eliciation in Recommender Systems"
author: Shuo Chang, Max Harper, Loren Terveen 
conference: ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW), 2015 
modified: 2014-09-15
category: papers
tags: [CSCW, Recommender System, Cold Start]
comments: true  
download: http://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~schang/papers/coldstart15.pdf
---
##ABSTRACT
To achieve high quality initial personalization, recommender systems must
provide an efficient and effective process for new users to express
their preferences.
We propose that this goal is  best served not by the classical method
where users begin by expressing preferences for individual items - this
process is an inefficient way to convert a user's effort into improved
personalization.
Rather, we propose that new users can begin by expressing their
preferences for \emph{groups} of items.
We test this idea by designing and evaluating an interactive process
where users express preferences across groups of items that are
automatically generated by clustering algorithms.
We contribute a strategy for recommending items based on these
preferences that is generalizable to any collaborative filtering-based
system.
We evaluate our process with both offline simulation methods and an
online user experiment.
We find that, as compared with a baseline rate-15-items interface, (a)
users are able to complete the preference elicitation process in less
than half the time, and (b) users are more satisfied with the resulting
recommended items.
Our evaluation reveals several advantages and other trade-offs involved
in moving from item-based preference elicitation to group-based
preference elicitation.

